Added blog for mobile testing frameworks comparison (#149)
JankariTech/blog: src/assets/MobileTestAutomation/automationFrameworksComparison.md

---
title: Which Mobile Test Automation Framework Fits You?
authorName: Prarup Gurung (प्रारुप गुरुङ्ग)
authorAvatar: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/8559121?v=4
authorLink: https://github.com/grgprarup
createdAt: June 27, 2024
tags: test automation, mobile testing, Android testing, iOS testing, testing frameworks
banner: https://blog.jankaritech.com/src/assets/MobileTestAutomation/images/banner.png
---

> ###### _Disclaimer: The views and opinions expressed in this blog post are solely my own. I am not receiving any funding or sponsorship for this content. This post is intended for informational and educational purposes only._

Author: That might be the common way. But, I prefer that at the beginning.

Mobile applications are now an essential part of our daily routines. From shopping and banking to social networking,
there's an app for almost everything. As our reliance on these apps grows, ensuring their quality becomes increasingly
important. This is where mobile test automation frameworks play a key role. They automate the testing process, making
sure apps function correctly without needing manual checks. However, with

> numerous [options available](https://www.google.com/search?q=test+automation+frameworks+for+mobile+applications),

Author: That comma is intended and the following question will connect with that. I want to keep it like that.

> numerous [options available](https://www.google.com/search?q=test+automation+frameworks+for+mobile+applications),

Author: The intended sentence is like this `However, with numerous options available, how do you choose the right one?`

> numerous [options available](https://www.google.com/search?q=test+automation+frameworks+for+mobile+applications),

Reviewer: I think it would be much clearer for the reader if your write that sentence as suggested above in one line. It's up to you to decide if it's better to have this line before or after the screenshot. And feel free to use <b> or <strong> or similar tags if you want to highlight the second part of the sentence (how do you choose the right one?)

> numerous [options available](https://www.google.com/search?q=test+automation+frameworks+for+mobile+applications),

Author: I will keep the order of the sentence and image as it is. I have removed the use of H5.

> numerous [options available](https://www.google.com/search?q=test+automation+frameworks+for+mobile+applications),

Reviewer: That's fine. However, this line is still not a proper sentence... As a reader I find it very confusing that this sentence doesn't have a subject and is ending with the comma.

![frameworks-list.png](/src/assets/MobileTestAutomation/images/frameworks-list.png "Frameworks List")

##### **_How do you choose the right one?_**

> Among the available frameworks, I've picked these five for comparison: **_Appium_**, **_Calabash_**, **_XCUITest_**, **_Espresso_**, and **_Selendroid_**. Let's break them down in straightforward.

Author: I have modified a sentence a bit.

## [**Selendroid**](http://selendroid.io/)

Selendroid, is a test automation framework for native or hybrid Android applications and the mobile web. It is an open
source tool with 433 GitHub forks and 880 GitHub stars and [here](https://github.com/selendroid/selendroid) is the
GitHub link.

### Pros and Cons:

| **Pros 👍**                                                                                               | **Cons 👎**                                                                                                                  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Environment:** Can be installed and run on various OS such as Windows, Linux, and macOS                 | **No Regular Updates:** Development has slowed down, which may limit its ability to support new Android features and devices |

> | **Open-Source:** Free to use but very less community for support                                          | **No Cross-Platform:** Limited to Android apps                                                                               |

Author: The description will explain the term `Open-Source`. If we say `less community support`, that will be `Cons`. I prefer to use the term `Open-Source`.

> | **Open-Source:** Free to use but very less community for support                                          | **No Cross-Platform:** Limited to Android apps                                                                               |

Reviewer: Your current version of the text uses exactly the term "less community for support" which is a rather uncommon English expression. Using the word less implies that you are comparing two things, but you don't specify in the text what you compare it to. When using an alternative term like "little" or "small" you wouldn't need make such a specification.

Also listing the second part of your phrase as a Con could be a good idea. Or removing it if you think it's well enough explained in other parts of the text?

```suggestion
| **Open-Source:** Free to use but rather little community support                                          | **No Cross-Platform:** Limited to Android apps                                                                               |
```

|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Test Execution:** Enables quicker test execution by automatically synchronizing with the UI | **No Cross-Platform:** Limited to Android apps                                     |
| **Easy to Setup:** Setting up Espresso is simple as works well within the Android Studio IDE  | **Limited Language Support:** Primarily supports Java and Kotlin for writing tests |
| **Regular Updates:** The tool is up-to-date with the latest Android OS features               | **IDE Dependent:** Android Studio IDE needs to be installed                        |
| **Community Support:** Owned by Google with large community                                   |                                                                                    |

### When to use?

- To validate each build after code changes
- To streamline processes by avoiding dependencies on remote servers and other workstations for testing
- To ensure unit and functional tests are easily executable from both IDEs and continuous integration setups

> - To test apps using the latest Android OS APIs to utilize new platform features and support new OS versions

Author: I am trying to say that `Espresso is recommended to be used for testing apps using the latest Android OS APIs` and the features of the latest Android OS APIs.
The sentence is modified as `To test apps using the latest Android OS APIs that support new platform features and OS versions`. Does that make sense?

> - To test apps using the latest Android OS APIs to utilize new platform features and support new OS versions

Reviewer: yes, I find it easier to understand 👍

### When to use?

- When developing iOS applications with stable, reliable, and fast testing
- When your team is focused on iOS development
- When you need to test iOS apps across various devices and screen sizes

## [**Calabash**](https://github.com/calabash)

Calabash is an open source framework that allows you to write and execute tests for Android and iOS apps. [Here](https://github.com/calabash) is the GitHub link. It uses
Cucumber, a tool that lets you write tests in plain language.

### Pros and Cons:

| **Pros 👍**                                                                               | **Cons 👎**                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **Environment:** Can be installed and run on various OS such as Windows, Linux, and macOS | **Lack of documentation:** Its documentation is quite minimal, making it challenging to set up the automation framework. To complete the setup, one often needs to rely on external resources |

Author: I will change that to `Poor documentation`.

| **User-Friendly:** Write tests in plain English, making it accessible for non-programmers | **No Regular Updates:** Active development has ceased, which might affect future compatibility                                                                                                |
| **Open-Source:** Free to use                                                              | **Low Community Support:** Very low community support as it is not used by many                                                                                                               |

### When to use?

- When your team includes non-technical members who need to write tests
- For projects that would benefit from [behavior-driven development](https://cucumber.io/docs/bdd/) (BDD)

## [**Appium**](https://appium.io/docs/en/latest/)

Appium is a widely-used mobile test automation framework that supports UI automation of multiple platforms, including

> mobile (Android, iOS, Tizen), web, desktop, TV. both iOS and Android platforms. The popularity of this tool may stem

Reviewer: The sentence `both iOS and Android platforms.` seems incomplete and thus breaks the flow of reading... 
maybe connect it with the previous sentence or make it a full sentence

Author: I forgot to remove that.

> from its support for multiple programming languages for writing tests. Also, it is an open-source tool with 18.2k GitHub
> stars and 6k forks and [here](https://github.com/appium/appium) is the GitHub link.

Reviewer: here is a suggestion for a bit sleeker way of saying the same thing

```suggestion
from its support for multiple programming languages for writing tests. Also, it is an open-source tool with 18.2k
stars and 6k forks on [GitHub](https://github.com/appium/appium).
```

### When to use?

- When developing mobile applications across multiple platforms (iOS and Android) to guarantee seamless
  cross-platform compatibility
- To automate tests for mobile apps, ensuring consistent and efficient testing across a variety of devices
  and operating systems
- When you need a flexible and community-supported open-source framework for mobile automation
- When you can utilize a single codebase for both Android and iOS, minimizing development effort and
  maximizing code reusability
- For mobile application testing that involves interacting with native, hybrid, or mobile web
  applications, providing a versatile solution for various testing requirements

## Conclusion

In conclusion, the choice of a mobile test automation framework should align with your project requirements, team
expertise, and the specific needs of your application. Whether you need cross-platform compatibility, ease of use,
native integration, or community support, understanding the strengths of each framework will help you make an informed
decision and ensure the success of your mobile testing strategy.

**_Keep Learning and Keep Practicing_** 👍

> **Stay tuned!!!**

Reviewer: for what?

Author: That's my style on every blog.

---
title: Which Mobile Test Automation Framework Fits You?
authorName: Prarup Gurung (प्रारुप गुरुङ्ग)
authorAvatar: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/8559121?v=4
authorLink: https://github.com/grgprarup

> createdAt: June 27, 2024

Reviewer: update date before publishing :)

tags: test automation, mobile testing, Android testing, iOS testing, testing frameworks
banner: https://blog.jankaritech.com/src/assets/MobileTestAutomation/images/banner.png
---

###### _Disclaimer: The views and opinions expressed in this blog post are solely my own. I am not receiving any funding or sponsorship for this content. This post is intended for informational and educational purposes only._

Mobile applications are now an essential part of our daily routines. From shopping and banking to social networking,
there's an app for almost everything. As our reliance on these apps grows, ensuring their quality becomes increasingly
important. This is where mobile test automation frameworks play a key role. They automate the testing process, making
sure apps function correctly without needing manual checks. However, with

> numerous [options available](https://www.google.com/search?q=test+automation+frameworks+for+mobile+applications&oq=test+automation+frameworks+for+mobile+applications&gs_lcrp=EgZjaHJvbWUyBggAEEUYOTIICAEQABgWGB4yDQgCEAAYhgMYgAQYigUyDQgDEAAYhgMYgAQYigUyDQgEEAAYhgMYgAQYigUyDQgFEAAYhgMYgAQYigUyDQgGEAAYhgMYgAQYigUyCggHEAAYgAQYogQyCggIEAAYgAQYogTSAQkxMzQ3OWowajeoAgCwAgA&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8),

Reviewer: I think you can shorten the URL to https://www.google.com/search?q=test+automation+frameworks+for+mobile+applications&oq=test+automation+frameworks+for+mobile+applications

everything else is just some additional stuff about your search (browser, and some other encrypted personal information...)

Author: :+1: Sure, I will keep it shorter.

> ![frameworks-list.png](/src/assets/MobileTestAutomation/images/frameworks-list.png "Frameworks List")

Reviewer: did you create this graphics? If not it's good practice to state the source

Author: That's a screenshot of the google search result and I took that screenshot.

> ##### **_How do you choose the right one?_**

Reviewer: Is this the caption of the image above?

Author: No, that's just an open question.

Reviewer: I was just wondering why you use H5 title formatting then...

Among the available frameworks, I've picked these five for comparison: **_Appium_**, **_Calabash_**, **_XCUITest_**, *
*_Espresso_**, and **_Selendroid_**. Let's break them down in a straightforward manner.

## [**Selendroid**](http://selendroid.io/)

> Selendroid, is a test automation framework for native or hybrid Android applications and the mobile web. It is an open

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Selendroid is a test automation framework for native or hybrid Android applications and the mobile web. It is an open
```

> Selendroid. Let's break them down in straightforward.

Reviewer: why did you select exactly these five ones? are these the five most popular ones? do you see most potential in them for the future? are they particularly useful for a specific use case you have in mind? other reasons?
I think mentioning the reason for your selection of frameworks is beneficial for the reader

Author: There are no specific reasons to select these five. These are random selections.

source tool with 433 GitHub forks and 880 GitHub stars and [here](https://github.com/selendroid/selendroid) is the
GitHub link.

> #### Pros and Cons:

Reviewer: Hierarchy of titles: usually there is a H3 title following a H2, but it seems like you jumped directly from H2 to H4 here (applies to all subtitles)

Author: That was intended previously but now, I have changed H4 to H3.

| **No App Modifications:** You don't need to recompile or modify your app                                  |                                                                                                                              |
| **Inspector Tools:** Selendroid includes its own [UI inspector](http://selendroid.io/inspector.html) tool |                                                                                                                              |

#### When to use?

- When automating tests for Android applications across devices with varying screen sizes and resolutions
- For conducting cross-browser testing of Android apps, ensuring compatibility across a wide range of devices and
  Android versions
- When you require simultaneous testing across multiple Android devices, enhancing overall test efficiency
- When testing scenarios that require intricate gestures and interactions, benefiting from its strong capabilities in
  handling touch events
- If seamless integration with continuous integration tools is needed, enabling automated testing within a CI/CD
  pipeline

## [**Espresso**](https://developer.android.com/training/testing/espresso)

> Espresso is an open source Android applications test automation framework developed by Google. It's known for its

Reviewer: since it's open source, maybe add GitHub link too like for the one above?

Author: I couldn't find the repo for Espresso.

Reviewer: @grgprarup what about this one? It looks like it's part of android test
https://github.com/android/android-test/tree/main/espresso

Author: Thanks for the link. I have also added the GitHub link in the content and the docs link in the title.

|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Test Execution:** Tests are stable, highly reliable, and performed faster       | **No Cross-Platform:** Limited to iOS apps                                       |
| **Easy to Setup:** Setting up XCUITest is straightforward as works well XCode IDE | **Limited Language Support:** It supports Swift or Objective-C for writing tests |
| **Community Support:** Built by Apple with large community                        | **Environment:** Only for macOS                                                  |
|                                                                                   | **IDE Dependent:** XCode IDE needs to be installed                               |

#### When to use?

- When developing iOS applications with stable, reliable, and fast testing
- When your team is focused on iOS development
- When you need to test iOS apps across various devices and screen sizes

## [**Calabash**](https://github.com/calabash)

> Calabash is an open-source framework that allows you to write and execute tests for Android and iOS apps. It uses

Reviewer: same as above, since it's open source, maybe add link to GitHub?

Author: The link is added in the title.

Cucumber, a tool that lets you write tests in plain language.

#### Pros and Cons:

| **Pros 👍**                                                                                | **Cons 👎**                                                                                                    |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **Environment:** Can be installed and run on various OS such as Windows, Linux, and macOS. | **Lack of documentation:** Can be slower compared to other tools because it uses a client-server architecture. |

Reviewer: I don't understand how the lack of documentation affects performance of the framework... or are you talking about learning curve when you use the term "slower"?

Author: Sorry, I forgot to change the description.

| **Cross-Platform:** It supports writing tests for both iOS and Android.                    | **Limited Language Support:** It supports only Ruby                                                            |                                                                                                                                    |
| **User-Friendly:** Write tests in plain English, making it accessible for non-programmers. | **No Regular Updates:** Active development has ceased, which might affect future compatibility                 |
| **Open-Source:** Free to use                                                               | **Low Community Support:** Very low community support as it is not used by many                                |

#### When to use?

- When your team includes non-technical members who need to write tests

> - For projects that would benefit from behavior-driven development (BDD)

Reviewer: maybe link to one of our blogs about BDD or some other source that describes the concept of BDD. As far as I remember, there were a few sources in the other blog from Artur that you've recently updated.

Author: I have added a link to the BDD docs.
